# Governating Linodes

Linode has a feature called StackScripts,
which can be used to run small fragments of code on first boot.

Linode also has an API and a Python CLI tool,
which can be used to provision new VPS servers which run a specific StackScript on boot.

Combining these two things allows fully automated provisioning of new Governated servers.


## The Governator StackScript

Your StackScript contents depend on the public URL of your Governator Server,
so the correct script for your needs is autogenerated using same systems as everything else.

After `g8r init` and `g8r make`
you should have a script in `tree/linode/StackScript.sh` which you can add to your Linode account,
by running `tree/linode/install.sh`.


## Using Governator to provision hosts

Once the StackScript has been generated and uploaded to Linode,
you can provision a server by running: `tree/linode/deploy.sh type-host-secret`

This will create a new Linode VPS
(using your default settings for VPS type and location)
which will bootstrap itself to become whatever `type-host-secret` is.

If successful,
the files
`.../type-host-secret/linode.json` and
`.../type-host-secret/host.json`
will be created.
The file `.../host.json`
contains IP address information which will be picked up by the default
`automations.json`
rules and added to the inventory for the host's domain.


## TODO

TODO: Add a pluggable way to provision hosts after creating them.
Linode out of the box, others can contribute if this project grows legs.
